Theoretical Basis for the Proposed Equation of State.
The kinetic theory is founded on the hypothesis that a gas consists
of continually moving molecules or atoms, whose velocities are dis
tributed according to certain laws; from which it is shown that the
pressure and density of the gas are uniform throughout the interior.
From the thermodynamic and experimental viewpoints, however, it
is the pressure at the boundary which is of interest, and in general
this will differ from that in the interior. In the case of actual gases,
for given conditions of temperature and density, the pressure in the
interior will depend, among other things, upon the forces which act
between the molecules and upon their dimensions, and at the boundary
this pressure will be modified by the field of force set up by the action
of these intermolecular forces. It is customary to consider the effects
of the forces in the interior and at the boundary as independent,
so that the net pressure is that existent in the body of the gas dimin
ished by an amount determined by the field at the boundary, although
rigorously these two effects are perhaps not independent. Following
the usual custom, the measured pressure of a gas can be written as
the difference of two terms, one of which arises from the kinetic
energy possessed by the gas, and the other from its potential energy,
P = Pkin. - Pcoh.
where pkin is the kinetic pressure and pcoh, is the so-called cohesive
pressure. These two terms will be considered separately.

(a) Kinetic Pressure.
A number of methods are available for the calculation of this
pressure, among which may be mentioned the method of general
dynamics,12 the method of collisions,12 the method of the mean free
path,13 and that employing the Clausius virial.14 In the case of an
ideal gas, namely one in which the molecules are infinitesimally small,
perfectly elastic, and in which there are no intermolecular forces,
these methods lead readily to the result that p = pRT where p is
the density of the gas. A simple method, due to Phillips,15 of obtain
ing this relation is to consider an imaginary plane in the interior of
a vessel containing a perfect gas and to evaluate the time rate of
transfer of momentum, J?, across unit area of this plane. It is easily
shown I i = pRT. In the case of an actual gas, the transfer of
momentum is not the same, and the theoretical deductions of Claus
ius,16 Lorentz,17 van der Waals,18 Boltzmann,19 Jeans,20 van Laar,21
etc. have all shown that it is greater than for a perfect gas. On
general considerations, Phillips has pointed out that the transfer of
momentum is greater for any gas in which intermolecular forces
exist regardless of whether these forces consist of repulsion or attrac
tion, regardless of the law of such forces, and further independent of
the size of the molecules, which may be infinitesimal.
The method which Phillips22 proposed for the evaluation of the
volume function ty (V) of Equation (1) can be applied with slight
modifications to the present case. Consider a thin section of the
fluid between parallel planes which are in the interior of the fluid
and which are a distance dx apart, where dx is the x-component of
the distance travelled in the time dt by a molecule of class A (i. e.
those possessing velocities between u and u + du). The kinetic
pressure is equal to the total rate of transfer of momentum across
unit area of one of these planes (called the reference plane) due to
the passage of molecules of all classes, the arithmetic sum of the
momenta of the molecules being taken regardless of the direction
of passage through the plane.
Consider now the molecules of class A contained in a cylinder of
unit area and length dx, the two ends of which lie in the parallel
planes; their total momenta are Vimu2dt where vi is the number of
molecules of this class in unit volume. If, in the time dt, vi molecules
of class A pass through the end of the cylinder lying in the reference
plane, the contribution to the pressure would be \>\RT and when sum
mated for all typed of molecules the result for the kinetic pressure

would be pRT.23 In the case that the molecules of the gas attract
or repel each other (due to the existence of intermolecular forces)
th? passage of momentum is greater than this value. For, during
the time, dt, which must be long enough for a large number of mole
cules to cross the reference plane so as to give an average value, a
certain fraction of the molecules which have already passed through
the plane will be reflected and pass through again, due to their inter
action with other molecules. This reflection will occur across all
boundaries of the cylinder equally in both directions and so will not
affect the distribution in the cylinder. But the momentum of the
reflected molecules must be included in any method for the calculation
of the pressure. Hence, due to the reflection of the molecules through
the reference plane (which may be any plane in the interior of the
fluid) the value pRT must be increased, in the ratio of the number
of molecules which actually pass through the boundary to the number
in the cylinder. If r is the average value of the "reflection" for all
classes of molecules, there is obtained for the true rate of transfer of
momentum (Ia) the relation
Ia= PRT(l + r) (6)
If the density of the gas is small so that the molecules act independ
ently as reflectors, the fraction reflected is proportional to the density,
and hence r = pB so that Equation (6) becomes
Ia = Pkin = RT/V[V+B] (7)
This expression was first deduced by Lorentz24 from the Claus
virial. If the density is such that this simple assumption of indep
ent reflection is not valid, and the reflecting power per molecul
interfered with by those around it, B will not be constant but w
be dependent upon the density, and the simplest form for this seco
order correction is a linear function of the density. Under the
conditions
B = Bo (1 - bP) (8)
and (7) becomes
Pkin = RT/V^2[V+B0(1-b/V)] (9)In the treatment thus far, the assumption has been made that the
time of encounter between the molecules is independent of the kinetic

energy, or in other words, of the temperature. That this is not strictly
valid can be seen from general considerations. When two slowly
moving molecules encounter one another, there is a tendency for
them to move under the influence of each other for an appreciable
length of time due to the intermolecular forces between them. This
has the effect of decreasing the number of independent aggregates
in the system* and hence simulates association or aggregation. At
low temperatures the number of such slowly moving molecules is
greater than at higher temperatures and a correction must be made
for this. Clausius25 attempted to account for this effect by making
the cohesive pressure term vary as the reciprocal temperature.
Boltzmann,26 Gibbs,27 and Keyes and Taylor28 have all treated
aggregation by a modification of the kinetic pressure term, as have
also Boynton and Bramley.29 The variation of the average time of
encounter with the temperature has the same effect as a change in
the average molecular weight of the gas and hence the gas constant
R may be considered to depend upon the temperature and density,
since the latter also affects the number of encounters and hence the
number of molecules which can be considered as independent. In
a former publication, the authors,30 using a method somewhat analo
gous to that employed by Keyes and Taylor, modified R in the following
manner :
R' =R(1- m/V e^{n}/T)
where m and n are constants, R the usual perfect gas constant and Rf
is its analogue in the equation of state of an aggregating gas. This
relation was shown to reproduce the experimental data in a satis
factory manner, but was not convenient due to the use of an exponen
tial function of the temperature. A complete treatment of the relation
of the degree of aggregation to the temperature has not been given,
but in general it can be assumed that to the first approximation the
variation in the number of independent aggregates due to the effect
on the average time of encounter is directly proportional to the
density and inversely proportional to some power of the absolute
temperature, so that R' becomes
R' = R[1-f(V,T)] = R[1-c/VT^n] (10)
From a study of the experimental data, it has been found that n = 3
gives a very satisfactory reproduction of the measurement
the introduction of this modification into Equation (9) leads to the
complete expression for the kinetic pressure,
Pkin = (RT(1-c/VT^3))/V^2[V+B0(1-b/V)] (11)
(b) Cohesive Pressure.
It has been pointed out by Phillips31 that whatever may be the
law of force between the molecules, the potential energy will be
directly proportional to the density for a given mass of gas, provided
only that the law of force is independent of the density and that the
force decreases with distance with sufficient rapidity for integrals
having infinite limits to converge. Under these conditions the
potential energy may be written
E = Ap= A/V
and differentiation with respect to the volume gives the cohesive
pressure
Pcoh = - dE/dV = A/V^2
which is the usual expression obtained by van der Waals anb! Lorentz.
In general, the forces between electrical systems are dependent
upon the dielectric constant of the medium. Therefore Phillips
considers that, if the molecules can be considered as substantially
rigid electrical systems, the molecular forces which give rise to the
cohesive pressure are affected by the dielectric constant k of the
gas, and since this varies with density it must be introduced into (12).
The cohesive pressure is therefore given by the relation
An
Pcoh. = A0/kV^2 (13)
The dielectric constant of a gas is related to the density by the Lorentz
equation
(k-1)/(k+2) = C/V
k = (V+2C)/(V-C)
Substitution of this value of k into (13) and neglecting all powers of
density higher than the first in the expansion gives
Pcoh = A0/V^2(1-3C/V + ....)
= A0/V^2(1-a/V)
The preceding method used for evaluating the variation of the
quantity A (of Equation 12) with the density could have been applied
to B, and would have given the same form of relation as assumed in
(8).
Combination of (11) and (14) gives the complete equation of state,
p = RT(1-c/VT^3)/V^2[V+B0(1-b/V)]- A0/V^2(1-a/V) (15)
which is Equation (2) written in extended form.
In the deduction of (15), general physical considerations have
been presented rather than detailed computation founded on the
assumption of certain laws for the distribution of velocities and for
the forces acting between the molecules. The first reason for this
choice is that the utility of an equation of state depends largely upon
its ability to reproduce the measured pressure-volume-temperature
data and to give accurate values for the thermodynamic derivatives,
and hence in the evaluation of the specific form of functions used
much consideration was given to the representation of the experi
mental measurements. In the second place, (15) differs from the
Lorentz equation of state, which has been deduced in a rigorous
manner from the general laws of kinetic theory, only in that the three
second order constants a, b and c have been introduced.
The proposed equation rests upon the two main assumptions that
the kinetic and cohesive pressures can be treated separately and that
the law of force (the specific form of which does not enter into the
treatment) shall be such that it will diminish rapidly with distance.
Both of these assumptions are common to the treatment of a large